libwebvi interface
==================

See src/libwebvi/libwebvi.h for C API, src/unittest/testlibwebvi.c for
example code in C, and src/libwebvi/webvi/api.py for Python API.


XSLT templates for video sites
==============================

libwebvi transforms the HTML of the web pages into a simple XML-based
format using the sites specific XSLT stylesheets stored under
templates directory. The XML describes navigation links and video
streams found on the web pages. The VDR plugin or the command line
client interprets the XML and displays a menu to the user.

The following is an example libwebvi XML response for navigation page
(WEBVIREQ_MENU) query:

<wvmenu>
  <title>Page title</title>

  <link>
    <label>Label of the link</label>
    <ref>wvt:///youtube/description.xsl?srcurl=...</ref>
    <stream>wvt:///youtube/video.xsl?srcurl=...</stream>
  </link>

  <textarea>
    <label>Text that will be shown to the user</label>
  </textarea>

  <textfield name="search_query">
    <label>Search terms</label>
  </textfield>

  <itemlist name="search_sort">
    <label>Sort by</label>
    <item value="">Relevance</item>
    <item value="video_date_uploaded">Date Added</item>
    <item value="video_view_count">View Count</item>
    <item value="video_avg_rating">Rating</item>
  </itemlist>

  <button>
    <label>Send</label>
    <submission>wvt:///youtube/navigation.xsl?srcurl=...</submission>
  </button>
</wvmenu>

<wvmenu> is the root node of a menu page. Possible children are
<title>, <link>, <textfield>, <itemlist>, <textarea>, and <button>
nodes.

The content of <title> will be shown as the title of the menu.

<link> is a navigation link. It must have a child <label>, which
contains the text that will be shown to the user, and at least one of
<ref> (a navigation reference) or <stream> (a media stream reference).
The user interface provides three ways for selecting the link: a
navigation action loads a new menu page by retrieving the reference in
<ref> node from the library (using request type WEBVIREQ_MENU), a file
action downloads the stream by requesting <stream> reference from the
library (WEBVIREQ_FILE), stream URL action retrieves a direct URL to
the stream by requesting reference <stream> (WEBVIREQ_STREAMURL).

<textarea> defines a text widget. Again, child node <label> contains
the text that will be displayed to the user.

<textfield> defines a control for entering a string.

<itemlist> defines a control for selecting one of the specified
<item>s.

<button> is a special kind of link. It encodes the state of
<textfield>s and <itemlist>s into its reference. When the <button> is
selected the state of other controls is send to the library. The
reference is constructed by concatenating encoded values of each
<textfield> and <itemlist> to the content of <submission> node. Each
control is encoded as string "subst=name,value" where name is
URL encoded presentation of the name nodes name attribute, and value
is URL encoded presentation of the <textfield>'s UTF-8 input or value
attribute of currently selected <item> in an <itemlist>. The encodings
are joined by putting a "&" between them.


Format of wvt:// references
===========================

In libwebvi, the navigation and menu requests are encoded encoded as
URIs with scheme wvt:// . Typically, these references are extracted
from <ref> or <stream> nodes in the XML menu documents. This section
explains the format of the references.

The references are of the form

wvt://templatedir/template.xsl?srcurl=...&other_params=value

The value of the srcurl parameter is a URL (typically an HTTP URL) of
a web page on a video site. templatedir/template.xsl specifies a name
of the XSLT template that is applied to the srcurl to get an XML menu.
srcurl can be empty.

templatedir called bin is a special directory. It contains executable
programs or scripts instead of XSLT templates. When a reference to the
bin directory is encountered, the named script is executed. Script's
standard output is returned as the results of the operation. The
script should return 0 on success.

Parameters that affect the template processing can be appended to the
reference. The parameter name and value are separated by '=',
different parameters are separated by '&'. Following parameters are
understood:

param=name,value

name and value are passed to the XSLT processor as an external
parameter.

subst=name,value

Replaces string {name} in srcurl with value before retrieving it. This
is used in search pages as discussed in previous section.

contenttype=value

value is used as content type if the server does not send a proper
content type header.

arg=value

Used to pass command line arguments to the external scripts in the bin
directory. There can be multiple args.

minquality=value
maxquality=value

Only the streams whose quality ("priority" attribute of the "url" tag)
is between minquality and maxquality are considered as candidates when
selecting a stream to play. The default limits are 0 and 100.

postprocess=json2xml

The source is a JSON document which should be converted to XML before
the XSLT transformation.

http-header=headername,headervalue

Append a HTTP header to the request. Ignored on transfers that use
some other protocol besides HTTP.

The reference to the main menu is wvt:///?srcurl=mainmenu .
